---
template: SinglePost
title: >-
  From Microbes to Whales, Axiom Provides Data Support for the Arctic Marine  
  Biodiversity Observing Network (AMBON)
slug: axiom-supports-ambon
date: 2016-01-21T05:00:00.000Z
featured:
  image: /assets/ambon2015_groupphotocropped1-1024x452.jpg
images:
  - image: /assets/walrus-500x333.jpg
categories: []
---
Axiom Data Science and the Alaska Ocean Observing System (AOOS) are pleased to partner with the new Arctic Marine Biodiversity Observing Network (AMBON) to provide data management support. The goal of AMBON is to demonstrate and build an operational marine biodiversity observing network from microbes to whales. The AMBON field region is located on the Chukchi Sea continental shelf in the US Arctic as a region exposed to climatic changes and anthropogenic influences. AMBON is a 5‐year research partnership (2015‐2020) between university and federal investigators, and integrates with Axiom and AOOS as the central data node to provide a publicly accessible and user‐ friendly database. Through this partnership, AMBON biodiversity data will be made available to a broad audience of users and stakeholders, from local to pan‐Arctic to global. Data management through Axiom/AOOS is an AMBON key component, providing essential compatible linkages to past and present programs and open data accessibility. Data are stored in the Research Workspace and will be made publicly available through the AOOS data portal and archived in national data repositories. Visit the AMBON website for the latest in their Arctic research. 

AMBON is funded through the National Ocean Partnership Program, with contributions from the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Bureau of Ocean and Energy Management (BOEM), and Shell Exploration and Production Company. 
